[docs] Update environment variable guides for SDK 49 integrated env (#23242)
expo/expo: docs/pages/guides/environment-variables.mdx

---
title: Environment variables in Expo
sidebar_title: Environment variables
description: Learn how to use environment variables in an Expo project.
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

Environment variables are key-value pairs configured outside your source code that allow your app to behave differently depending on the environment. For example, you can enable or disable certain features when building a test version of your app, or switch to a different API endpoint when building for production.

> Metro Bundler will automatically load environment variables with an `EXPO_PUBLIC_` prefix from **.env** files for use within your JavaScript code whenever you use the Expo CLI, such as when running `npx expo start` to start your app in local development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo's Metro config will automatically load environment variables with an `EXPO_PUBLIC_` prefix from **.env** files for use within your JavaScript code whenever you use the Expo CLI, such as when running `npx expo start` to start your app in local development mode.
```

  return <Button onPress={onPress} title="Post" />;
}
```
When you run `npx expo start`, `process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL` will be replaced with `https://staging.example.com` in your app bundle. Variables can be updated as you edit your code without restarting the Expo CLI or clearing the cache. You will need to perform a full reload (e.g., shake gesture and then Reload in Expo Go or your development build) to see the updated value.

> **warning** Do not store sensitive info, such as private keys, in `EXPO_PUBLIC_` variables. These variables will be visible in plain-text in your compiled application.

### How variables are loaded

> Metro Bundler loads **.env** files according to the [standard .env file resolution](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv/blob/c6e583a/README.md#what-other-env-files-can-i-use) and then replaces all references in your code to `process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_[VARNAME]` with the corresponding value set in the **.env** files. Code inside **node_modules** is not affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Expo CLI loads **.env** files according to the [standard .env file resolution](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv/blob/c6e583a/README.md#what-other-env-files-can-i-use) and then replaces all references in your code to `process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_[VARNAME]` with the corresponding value set in the **.env** files. Code inside **node_modules** is not affected for security purposes.
```

Every variable must be referenced as a static property in order for it to be inlined. For example, the expression `process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_KEY` will be rewritten, but `process.env['EXPO_PUBLIC_KEY']` will not.

### Using multiple .env files to define separate environments
You can define any of the [standard .env files](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv/blob/c6e583a/README.md#what-other-env-files-can-i-use), so it is possible to have separate **.env**, **.env.local**, **.env.production**, etc. files and they will load according to the standard priority.

You may choose to commit the default **.env** file or other standard configurations to version control, but generally **.env.local** files should be added to your **.gitignore**:

```bash .gitignore
.env*.local
```

If you create an environment-specific file, like **.env.test**, you can load it by setting `NODE_ENV` when running the Expo CLI:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ NODE_ENV=test npx expo start']} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ NODE_ENV=production npx expo start']} />
```

test should generally be used for running with jest

## Environment variables in Expo Application Services
### EAS Build

> [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) lets you define environment variables within build profiles in **eas.json**, as well as secrets for sensitive data required when building your native app. EAS Build can use **.env** files for inlining variables into the JavaScript embedded in your native app if they are made available to EAS Build, but you will still want to use **eas.json** and EAS Secrets for other environment-specific concerns, such as creating a separate test app variant or uploading source maps to an error-reporting service. Check out the EAS Build documentation on [environment variables and build secrets](/build-reference/variables.mdx) for more information.

Reviewer: EAS CLI doesn't adhere to Expo's environment variable system, the only time there's overlap is when EAS CLI invokes Expo CLI -> Metro. The phrasing here could be more like the EAS Update section.

```diff .env
- API_URL=https://myapi.com
+ EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL=https://myapi.com
```

> If you have any non-standard **.env** files (e.g., **.env.staging**), you will need to migrate those to one of the [standard .env files](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv/blob/c6e583a/README.md#what-other-env-files-can-i-use).

Then update your code to use `process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_[VARNAME]`:
```diff
- import Config from "react-native-config";

- const apiUrl = Config.API_URL;
+ const apiUrl = process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL;
```

### From babel-plugin-transform-inline-environment-variables
Using a Babel plugin to transform your environment variable references in your code is similar to how Expo environment variables work. Set your variables inside of an **.env** file and update your variable names to use the `EXPO_PUBLIC_` prefix:
```diff
- const apiUrl = process.env.API_URL;
+ const apiUrl = process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL;
```

Then you can remove the plugin from your Babel config:
```diff babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true);
  return {
    presets: ['babel-preset-expo'],

> --    plugins: ['transform-inline-environment-variables'],

Reviewer: Should note that the cache needs to be cleared after this.

  };
};
```

### From direnv
Move any environment variables used in your JavaScript from their **.envrc** file to an **.env** file and prefix it with `EXPO_PUBLIC_`.

Previously with direnv, you would need to use a [dynamic app config](/versions/latest/config/app/#app-config) that reads from [`process.env`](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/process.html#process_process_env) to set environment variables on the `extra` field so they can be used in your JavaScript code via [expo-constants](/versions/latest/sdk/constants). Move those references directly into your code, adding the `EXPO_PUBLIC_` prefix:
```diff
- import Constants from 'expo-constants';

- const apiUrl = Constants.expoConfig.extra.apiUrl;
+ const apiUrl = process.env.EXPO_PUBLIC_API_URL;
```

> [direnv](https://direnv.net/) automatically loads and unloads environment variables in your shell depending on your current directory, meaning it can affect the environment for any process running in that directly, not just the Expo CLI. You will likely want to continue using direnv for other environment variables that are not used in your JavaScript code.

## Security considerations

> Never store sensitive secrets in your environment variables. When an end-user runs your app, they have access to all of the code and environment variables in your app. Read more about [storing sensitive info](https://reactnative.dev/docs/security#storing-sensitive-info).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never store sensitive secrets in environment variables that are prefixed with `EXPO_PUBLIC_`. When an end-user runs your app, they have access to all of the code and embedded environment variables in your app. Read more about [storing sensitive info](https://reactnative.dev/docs/security#storing-sensitive-info).
```
